This is a running list of minutes from organisational meetings and decisions, with most recent on top, and older minutes on the bottom. The idea is that this will eventually be much more collaborative with many people participating, so here, things can be documented for all to read. People's abbreviations should be documented and kept up to date in the file ```./01_organsation/01_people.md```

---

# 2018-08-27

Decision was made to launch the first event on 2018-10-09 at the company Trafficon. A meeting for organizing the first event is scheduled for 2018-10-05. 

# 2018-08-22

The Salzburg based company [Trafficon](https://www.trafficon.eu/) offered to support our meetup with providing a room and drinks.

# 2018-07-27

JM signed up to officially become a [Maptime](http://maptime.io/) chapter for Salzburg (*see* [this issue](https://github.com/maptime/maptime-admin/issues/245)). Perhaps it will make sense to have an official Maptime meeting every month, and then a second meeting that has to do with other topics (e.g. processing and analysis, EO, databases, other software...).

# 2018-06-27

HA and JM decide to create a repository to start collecting ideas. Discussions with other students and faculty at the University of Salzburg's Z_GIS about the possibility of regular, informal skillsharing is happening.

It seems that the first workshop will take place in autumn 2018.
