This is a running list of minutes from organisational meetings and decisions, with most recent on top, and older minutes on the bottom. The idea is that this will eventually be much more collaborative with many people participating, so here, things can be documented for all to read. People's abbreviations should be documented and kept up to date in the file ```./01_organsation/01_people.md```

---

# 2019-11-06

Participants: JM, NJ, HA, EW

Location: at JM

## Create Agenda for next Maptime (14.11)

### Funny presentations

PostGIS Tag [JM]

Map November 30 days of mapping [N]

### 1 year Maptime

Give an overview over the past year [EW]
  - presentations
  - invited speaker
  - events (mapathons, OSM mapping)
  - social stuff

### Slido Questions [HA]

#### Feedback

What was the most interesting of what we already did?
  - overview presentations
  - technical presentations
  - mapathons
  - OSM (Streetcomplete, other outdoor mapping)
  - social events (Stammtisch)


What kinds of technical topics would you like to see?
  - Cartography
  - QGIS and other GIS
  - OSM
  - Python and Jupyter
  - Earth Observation
  - ...


What other events would you like to see?

  - informal OSM mapping workshops
  - coworking together on whatever projects you have


What topics would you be able to share for presentations?


Where else would you like to meet other than iDEAS:lab?
  - restaurant/bar
  - university room
  - company
  - ...


Would you be interested in an event with companies in Salzburg?

What day of the week should we meet?
- rotating
- days

How did you hear about Maptime?
-

#### Quiz

Is this image from a satellite, a microscope or a painting?

  [pick 3 images as 3 different questions from https://www.huffpost.com/entry/micro-or-macro-amazing-nature-images_n_4151127 for satellite and microscope, or https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2013/03/nasa-or-moma-play-the-game/274212/ for satellite and paintings]


What is this image a composite of?

  Source: https://www.copernicus.eu/en/media/images/alert-canada
  Full image: https://www.copernicus.eu/sites/default/files/images/media/high/375402-Alert_Canada.jpg

  - This is from a microscope.
  - Composite of Sentinel-2 bands 9, 10, 11
  - Composite of radar scans from 3 different months [TRUE]
  - This is no remote sensing image, it is art!

What is the average altitude of the Terra satellite's orbit above Earth's surface (i.e. mean sea level)?

  - ca. 504km
  - ca. 512km
  - ca. 710km    [TRUE]
  - ca. 1024km

Which of the following organisations exist for real?

  - Flat earth society [TRUE]
  - Association for the Protection of the Shapefile
  - Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team [TRUE]
  - PostGIS Pirates

What is the ESPG code of the Pseudo Mercator projection?

  - 3035
  - 3857 [TRUE]
  - 4326
  - 4623

What is the name of the projection used predominantly by National Geographic Society until 1998? (image from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robinson_projection)

  - Winkel tripel
  - Robinson [TRUE]
  - Mollweide
  - Goode homolosine

What qualities does the Universala Transverse Mercator coordinate system have?

  - Angle-preserving [TRUE]
  - Equal-area
  - Equidistant
  - True-direction


How many files are mandatory for a complete Shapefile?

  - 3 [TRUE]
  - 4
  - 5
  - 6

When was the first version of PostGIS made available to the public?

  - schätzfrage
(otherwise....)
  - 1996
  - 1998
  - 2000
  - 2001 [TRUE]

After which city is the newest QGIS version named?

  - Coruña [TRUE]
  - Zanzibar
  - Las Palmas
  - Salzburg

How long has the iDEAS:lab existed?

  - 5 years
  - 4 years
  - 3 years [TRUE]
  - 2 years



# 2019-07-23

Participants: JM, NJ, HA, EW

Location: Alchimiste

## To-Do for next meeting:

- [ ] Organise September Maptime with TraffiCon [EW]
- [ ] Figure out when AGI MSc orientation is [HA]
- [ ] Delegate contacting companies for October [HA]
- [ ] create Meetup event with maptime e-mail [NJ]
- [ ] blog post on the new website from AGIT [JM]
- [ ] draft mission statement/description for outreach and website [HA]

## Minutes

JM: Review of AGIT event and Mapathon // Youth Mappers

### Upcoming events

  - September 18th, Mapathon + JOSM at TraffiCon
    - EW to organise date and location
    - NJ: Foss4G Re-camp
    - Work with Peter, Gina, Petra, Kerstin... (location, background info)
  - October (same week as AGI MSc Orientation), Intro to Geo in Salzburg
    - Companies to contact:
      - Salzburger AG (Marion)
      - TraffiCon (EW)
      - SpaSe (Kerstin/Steffen)
      - iSpace
      - Salzburg Research
      - SAGIS
      - EOVision (Marion?)
      - runtastic
      - outdooractive
      - IGU
      - ... everyone at ZGIS talk about their research
   - November (2nd week), QGIS
     - Favourite Plug-ins
     - Intro to QGIS
     - QGIS and OSM (Overpass API)
   - December (2nd week), Rundgemälde + Stammtisch

### Future Presentation topic brainstorm

  - Tweets + Geocoding (Clemens?)
  - GeoNews (7 minutes): overview of upcoming events, releases, etc.
    - SotM
    - Events in Vienna, Munich, etc.
    - Upcoming conferences...
  - Sen2Cube architecture
  - Cool Maps

### Other Points

  - potential future collaboration with Munich or Vienna?
    - Unsure.
  - Start using Meetup.com to push events
    - NJ wants this bad


# 2018-10-26T1600

Participants: JM, PS, NJ, HA, EW (video)

Location: the new digs

## To-Do for next meeting:

- [ ] write Techno_Z Firmen and other GIS Cluster companies [NJ, HA]
- [ ] prepares OSM StreetComplete activity [JM]
- [ ] create Meet-up event for November 13th with maptime e-mail [NJ]
- [x] reserve table for 20 people at Trumerei [HA]
- [x] buy nametags [HA]
- [ ] will bring pens for name tags at the meeting [JM, PS]
- [ ] blog post on the new website of the past meeting [JM]
- [ ] write FOSSGIS to thank them for mailing list [JM]
- [ ] e-mail for next meeting, mention mailing list, etc. [JM]
- [ ] send font to PS [JM]
- [ ] will do final drafts of logo and [PS]
- [ ] will set-up the website and be responsible for technical stuff [NJ]
- [ ] draft mission statement/description for outreach and website [HA]


## minutes

### was bisher geschah // up do now

- meeting on 9 of October
- TraffiCon -- positive, looking forward to more meetings
- We have a website from maptime as an official chapter
- We are connected via the Slack channel
- The mailing list has been created (FOSSGIS)!

EW liked that the presentations didn't take so long (around an hour) and that the social part started well.

### website

- we have access [here](http://maptime.io/salzburg/)
- JM add blog post about the next meeting
- NJ is responsible for technical stuff

### Slack

We are on Slack to stay in touch with the rest of the Maptime network, but will not use it for our own purposes

### mailing-list

- FOSSGIS.de created a mailing list for us
- JM tested it this morning

We will still keep the Gmail account and use it as contact point, but no longer for communication about events.

### Trafficon and Space

- They are interested in staying involved and helping us find a larger space for December.
- VHS may be an option, especially since it is in the same
- Possibility to send out e-mails to different companies/connections looking for space.

### November space

- Trumerei for November 13th 19:00
- Consider other spaces for next social meeting in January (Raschhofer?)
- HA will reserve the standing tables in the front for 20 people -- reevaluate actual count later.

18:00 meeting before the Trumerei for StreetComplete activity

### Videos

NJ, JM are still working on the videos -- learning how everything works

### Things to get for next meetings

- Name tags (with funny hashtags)
- JM, PS will bring pens

### bar camp outreach

https://barcamp-sbg.at/
- November 9-10
- NJ and PM will go and also present maptime salzburg

### Logo

- Colors are great
- Try hexagon with flat top/bottom
- Change font to maptime font

### e-mail for next maptime

- mention website, mailing list, November meeting
- JM will write it.

### December topic

- discuss at November maptime
- fallback GDAL/OGR or Geoserver
- be sure to be quick about promoting directly after the next meeting in November

# 2018-09-05T1800

Participants: HA, JM, EW, NJ, PS

Location: pizzeria in Salzburg

## To-Do for next meeting:
- [x] Create e-mail and mailing list [HA, JM]
- [x] Logo [PS]
- [ ] Create Meetup event [JM]
- [ ] Create Website for the chapter [NJ]
- [x] Ask TraffiCon if they would like to present, since they are hosting [JM]
- [ ] Make explicit somewhere that translations from German to English are possible for participants who do not speak German if the presentation language is not the default of English [HA]
- [ ] Think about a transparent framework/system of criteria for selecting presentations [everyone]
- [x] set date for next organisers meeting [undecided]

## Minutes
### size of the room
  * the offered room by Trafficon only has space for maximum 15 people
  * JM: apparently meetings have a nicer atmosphere if the room is rather too small, because then it feels much fuller
  * we will stay in the space, but need to consider future options since we already have almost 10 interested people

### communication
  * mailing list will be created -- independent of different social media ecosystems and technologies
  * decided against a Slack channel, at the moment, since it is more difficult to archive and keep track of older discussions and interactions -- this can be revisited at a later date

### publicity
  * HA will create official Email account
  * we will probably have the website [maptime.io/Salzburg](maptime.io/Salzburg)
  * we already own the Twitter account [twitter.com/maptimesalzburg](https://twitter.com/maptimeSalzburg)
  * we could also create an account on [Mastodon](https://mastodon.technology/)
    * This is undecided
  * PS will create a logo
  * stick to word of mouth at the moment, other than creating a meetup event
  * in the future we should announce our meetup on various channels:
    * University: students and employees from all institutes (Z_GIS, Geography, Computer Science, Math, Geology, History, Political Science...)
    * companies
    * other meetups
    * OpenStreetMap Community
    * Makerspaces, Hackerspaces
    * government of Salzburg

### registration
   * JM will set us up on [meetup.com](https://www.meetup.com/) for the first meeting
   * registration via e-mail

### support, sponsoring
   * we could ask other companies for supporting our meetup in the future
   * perhaps talk to various organisations/companies in the GI-Cluster

### general program of the meetup
   * length: 90 minutes with a break in the middle
   * general topics to guide presentations (e.g. Open Data, Web programming, remote sensing, ...)
   * Starting with 3-4 presentations of 20 minutes -- open to also incorporating lightning talks, or different modi (e.g. hands-on workshops, shorter presentations...)
   * introduction of visitors at every meeting
     * name
     * affiliation
     * if new, how you heard about this meeting
   * language: English as default language, but open also to German presentations if preferred by presenters ... slides best in English, though
   * Tentatively set a meeting every month -- will ask the first round of attendees how often makes sense
   * set one moderator for the meeting to time-check and ask questions
   * publish list of planned presentations and presenters at least one week in advance

### documentation
   * take photos during meetup
   * upload slides
   * perhaps create a wiki
   * Perhaps create a maptime Salzburg github account for loading different hands-on repositories/workshops...
   * decided against filming presentations at the moment, but we will consider it for future events

### first topic
  * __OpenStreetMap!__ on Tuesday, 9.10.2018
  * also introduce the concept of maptime and how meetings should work in the future (including submitting topics)

# 2018-08-27

Decision was made to launch the first event on 2018-10-09 at the company Trafficon. A meeting for organizing the first event is scheduled for 2018-10-05.

# 2018-08-22

The Salzburg based company [Trafficon](https://www.trafficon.eu/) offered to support our meetup with providing a room and drinks.

# 2018-07-27

JM signed up to officially become a [Maptime](http://maptime.io/) chapter for Salzburg (*see* [this issue](https://github.com/maptime/maptime-admin/issues/245)). Perhaps it will make sense to have an official Maptime meeting every month, and then a second meeting that has to do with other topics (e.g. processing and analysis, EO, databases, other software...).

# 2018-06-27

HA and JM decide to create a repository to start collecting ideas. Discussions with other students and faculty at the University of Salzburg's Z_GIS about the possibility of regular, informal skillsharing is happening.

It seems that the first workshop will take place in autumn 2018.
